Docker Compose is a tool that simplifies the process of managing and deploying multi-container Docker applications. With Docker Compose, you can define, configure, and start
multiple Docker containers simultaneously using a single YAML configuration file (typically named docker-compose.yml). This makes it especially useful for applications that 
require multiple services (e.g., a web server, database, cache) to work together.

Key Features of Docker Compose
Configuration in a Single File: Define all services, networks, and volumes in a docker-compose.yml file.
Declarative Setup: Specify how containers should be built, their dependencies, environment variables, volumes, and network configurations in a human-readable way.
Simplified Multi-Container Management: Run, stop, and manage complex applications with just one or two commands (docker-compose up and docker-compose down).
Networking: Docker Compose automatically sets up a network for the services to communicate with each other.
Scalability: You can define and scale services by specifying the number of container instances you want to run for each service.
Example of a docker-compose.yml File
Here’s a basic example of a docker-compose.yml file for an application with a web server and a database:

yaml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: nginx
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    depends_on:
      - db

  db:
    image: mysql
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: example_password
In this example:

version: '3' specifies the version of the Compose file format.
web and db are services:
The web service uses the Nginx image and maps port 80 on the container to port 80 on the host machine.
The db service uses a MySQL image and sets an environment variable for the MySQL root password.
The depends_on option makes sure the db service starts before the web service.
Common Docker Compose Commands
docker-compose up: Starts and runs all services in the docker-compose.yml file.
docker-compose down: Stops and removes all services and networks created by Docker Compose.
docker-compose ps: Lists the containers running under the current Compose project.
docker-compose logs: Shows logs for all services.
Benefits of Using Docker Compose
Simplifies development: Run multiple containers with one command.
Consistency: Set up development environments that are consistent across different developers or machines.
Easier orchestration: Define complex applications in a single file, making deployment and scaling simpler.
Docker Compose is ideal for local development, testing, and small to medium-sized projects where you need an easy way to handle multi-container environments.

docker-compose up --> to run a docker-compose.yaml file 

reference links:

https://docs.docker.com/compose/


https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/

https://github.com/dockersamples/example-voting-app
